Gaza is cut off from the outside world
in more ways than one after a
communication blackout some links with
Gaza are gradually being restored
revealing the full picture of Israel's
so-called second phase of the war
against Hamas across Gaza but
particularly in northern areas around
Gaza City the devastating impact of
Israeli air strikes means the search for
survivors among ruined buildings and
homes is almost
futile
Israel says it now has troops commanders
and tanks on the ground in Gaza
targeting specific Hamas infrastructure
including the network of tunnels under
Gaza and eliminating named Hamas leaders
who Israel says were responsible for the
atrocities of October the
7th we will gradually expand the ground
operation and scale of forces in the
Gaza Strip it is complex and involves
risk for our forces too
we will do everything in our power from
the air sea and ground to ensure the
safety of our forces and to achieve the
war's
objectives the United Nations and other
Aid agencies say the needs of gaza's 2.1
million residents are critical it says
there are 600,000 internally displaced
people who fled from the bombing in the
north towards towns in the South where
resources are
scarce while Israel today played down
the scale of the crisis insisting that
food and water supplies were adequate
desperate families have even been
looting food storage facilities and un
warehouses in one week um we only had 80
trucks 8 Z trucks just above 80 right
that's when we say it's a drop in the
ocean or it's crumbs it's not a PR stunt
it's the truth because before the war
Gaza used to get 500 trucks every day so
in one week we had just over 80
trucks Israel has rejected some
international calls for a ceasefire to
allow the creation of an aid Corridor
but says it will allow some more regular
Aid in through the Raffa Crossing with
Egypt fuel will not be on the list as
Israel says it will be stolen by
Hamas Israel's prime minister maintains
that the military objectives of this war
are his number one priority but in
addition to those International concerns
there an important domestic audience too
worried about what increased military
activity in Gaza might actually
mean Mr Netanyahu met this weekend with
the families of the more than 220
hostages Israelis and foreigners still
being held captive by Hamas in Gaza he
promised to exhaust every possibility to
bring their loved ones
home and while many Israelis support the
government's military aims some of the
families say it's time to make a
deal there have been many conflicts
between Israel and Hamas in and around
Gaza in the last two decades this is by
some distance the biggest and most
costly it's a war that Israel says it
must see through to its conclusion
knowing the number of casualties will
inevitably keep going up W Davis BBC
News Jerusalem